# Overview
Welcome to Pi-Guard, a JamByte course. I’m James and I’ll be guiding you through this course. We are going to create a fully automated home security device 🚨 that records audio and video 🎥 when it detects motion 🏃💨. 

There is a lot of content in this course, don’t be discouraged if it seems alien 👽 to you; being a top programmer is not about memorising everything, but rather knowing how to approach problems when they present themselves to you.

If you find yourself stuck at times in the course, the best two methods to troubleshoot are by using Google (keyword search) or ChatGPT (Give as much information about the problem as possible). The AI Assistant 🤖 built into this website is powered by ChatGPT-4, feel free to use it anytime you get stuck!

---
# Guide
Your box of electronics should contain the following:
1. [Raspberry Pi Zero v2](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/raspberry-pi-zero-2-w/) (This is a powerful micro-computer that can be used to build almost any computing device!)
2. SD Card 16GB (Used as storage or "memory" for your device)
3. SD Card Adapter (Connect SD card to laptop)
4. USB Microphone & USB to Micro-USB Adapter (Records audio & connects to Pi)
5. 1x 5v Buzzer (Alerts people nearby when ringing)
6. 2x GPIO Cables for connecting the buzzer (Connects Buzzer to Pi Zero)
7. 3x GPIO Cables for connecting the Motion Sensor (Connects Motion sensor to Pi Zero)
8. Passive Infra-Red (PIR) Sensor (Detects human motion through a change in levels of radiation/heat)
9. Pi Zero Fish-Eye Camera (Records a wide-angle view of its surroundings in HD)
10. Power Supply Unit (Powers the device often referred to as PSU)
11. Case (Improve durability and aesthetics)


---
# Code
Not applicable for this video.

---
# Troubleshooting

Hopefully you haven't run into any issues so far...

If you have please [contact us](https://jambyte.io/contact).