# Overview
A home security device wouldn’t be much use without video recording capabilities. Just as we’ve added buzzing and motion detection capabilities we are now going to add the ability to record video 🎥.

The camera that we’re going to be using is high-quality with a fish-eye 🐠 lens. The guidance given in this tutorial can be used to build many different devices that require picture-taking 📸 or video-recording capability.

As the device we are using is really tiny we will have to adjust the settings ⚙️ such as the resolution (which is the quality of the image) and the frame-rate of the video to prevent the video recording from overwhelming and crashing our Pi Zero.

Every video is actually just a sequence of many images 🌇 that are taken in rapid succession and then stitched together afterwards. The number of images taken in a second is called Frames Per Second or FPS, which you may be familiar with if you play computer games 🕹️.

---
# Guide
Please be incredibly gentle with the camera and camera connector, it needs minimal force to open the connector on the device. Simply push the connector away from the edge of the device to open it. Once open, slide the camera's cable into the device. Slide the connector on the Pi shut again to seal and trap the cable into the slot.

To set the camera up in on the Pi we first need to install a couple of packages, Enter:
1. `sudo apt install ffmpeg` into the Terminal
2. Then install the picamera module by entering: `sudo apt install python3-picamera` into the Terminal

Now we have the Python packages required to record audio and convert it to a viewable format we need to enable the Pi to record video. This is like enabling camera input on your laptop but for the Pi.

Type `sudo raspi-config` into the terminal.

Use the arrow keys on your keyboard to navigate down to `Interface Options` and press enter.
Press enter once again to select `Legacy Camera Enable`
Then press the left arrow key and select `Yes`
Finally press enter to select OK and the ESC key to exit the Raspberry Pi's system settings.

**Please reboot your raspberry pi once you've made this changes with `sudo reboot` for them to take effect**

Once rebooted, enter the Pi-Guard folder and create a file called `record-video.py`

Finally enter the Python code below to record audio with your Raspberry Pi!

---
# Code
####record-video.py
```
from picamera import PiCamera
from datetime import datetime
import subprocess

# Function to record video for set time with specified frame rate
def record_video(duration, video_file, frame_rate=12):
  
   # Create camera object (OOP) and set resolution and frame-rate using methods
   camera = PiCamera()
   camera.resolution = (640, 480)
   camera.framerate = frame_rate

   # Record Video
   print("Starting video recording...")

   # Use PiCamera objects methods to record for a specified time
   camera.start_recording(video_file)
   camera.wait_recording(duration)
   camera.stop_recording()
   camera.close()

   print(f"Video recorded at: {video_file}")

   # Return the video file value to the variable
   return video_file

# A function to convert .h264 video to .mp4 video
def convert_to_mp4(video_file):
   # Convert to MP4
   print("Converting to MP4 format...")
   command = f"ffmpeg -framerate {frame_rate} -i {video_file} -c copy {mp4_video_file}"
   subprocess.run(command, shell=True)

   print(f"Video converted and saved as: {mp4_video_file}")

# Record duration
duration = 10
frame_rate = 12

# Generate a unique file name with timestamp
timestamp = datetime.now().strftime("%d/%m-%H%M")
video_file = f"/home/[YOUR-USERNAME]/video_{timestamp}.h264"
mp4_video_file = f"/home/[YOUR-USERNAME]/video_{timestamp}.mp4"

# Call record video function and store return value in h264_video variable
h264_video = record_video(duration, video_file, frame_rate)

# Call convert to mp4 function, no need to save it as a variable as it has no return value
convert_to_mp4(h264_video)
```

---
# Troubleshooting
If you encounter any issues please [contact us](https://jambyte.io/contact). We will add the fixes to this section, or into the video.