# Overview
Before we get started building the device we need to prepare the computer 🖥️/💻 you’re using. Programmers use software called Code Editors 🧑‍💻 to write their code. Just as you might use Microsoft Word if you ever wanted to write an essay, if you ever wanted to write some code, you’d use a code editor, such as VS code as we’ll be using in this course.

The setup that we’ll cover in this tutorial will not only prepare your computer for this course but in case you ever want to program in Python in the future 🔮. The tools that we’ll cover in this tutorial are used by professional developers across the world 🌍 everyday.

---
# Guide
Simply download Visual Studio Code and Python below and follow the installation process.

### Downloads
Download VS Code Link: [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

Download Python Link: [Python Download](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Visual Studio Code is a powerful software tool.


### VS Code Sections
The left panel of VS Code is File Explorer, similar to File Explorer on Windows or Finder on MacOS. This is where you can see your files and folders.

The bottom section is a Terminal, similar to Command Line on Windows or Terminal on MacOS. This is where you can execute commands, like running a program.

The central section is the editor itself, this is where you can view the contents of a file and edit it.

### Process
Once you have installed both VS Code and Python simply enter the code in the section below and run the python file by clicking the play icon in the top right of your screen.

You should see `Hello world` printed in the terminal.

---
# Code
#### example.py

`print("Hello world")`

---
# Troubleshooting
If you encounter any issues please [contact us](https://jambyte.io/contact). We will add the fixes to this section, or into the video.