# Overview
Practically every computer that you use has an operating system . An operating system is responsible for controlling a computer’s basic functions.

Examples of operating systems include MacOS on Apple 🍎 laptops or Windows 🪟 for Windows laptops, even ios on iPhones and android for android phones are examples of operating systems.

The device that we’re building is no different. We’re going to install Raspberry Pi OS onto the Raspberry Pi Zero, which will allow us to use and program the device.

---
# Guide
1. To install Raspberry Pi OS onto the Raspberry Pi we must download an install Pi Imager:
Download Link: [Raspberry Pi Imager](https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/)

2. Once downloaded and installed please enter the SD Card into your laptop, using the provided SD card adapter.

3. Next, open the Pi Imager software, select Raspberry Pi OS Lite (This has no desktop interface), you may choose Raspberry Pi OS Full if you'd like to connect a keyboard and mouse and control the Pi directly.

4. Select the 16GB SD card as the memory.

5. Select the settings/gear icon in the bottom right. Set the hostname to [Your Initials][Your birthdate].local which in my case is js17.local, this is so that the hostname is unique and we can identify the device on the network.

6. Follow the video carefully and enter a **unique and memorable** username and password. You will need these later!

7. Next enter the SSID (Name) and Password of your WiFi that your laptop is connected to.

8. Finally, click **save** and then **write**!

9. After powering the raspberry pi and waiting 5 minutes for it to boot up correctly enter:
`ping [Your Initials][Your birthdate].local` or `ping hostname.local` (if you selected a different hostname in step 5)

---
# Code
Not applicable for this video.

---
# Troubleshooting
If you encounter any issues please [contact us](https://jambyte.io/contact). We will add the fixes to this section, or into the video.