# Summary
Generally to control a computer you plug a keyboard, mouse and screen directly into the computer which allows you to use it. However, our device has no screen, keyboard or mouse attached to it. Therefore we need to control our device remotely, we will use our computer to remotely connect to and control the device we’re building. 

This is incredibly common in the world of technology, Cloud Computing is the perfect example of this. The majority of computing actually happens in data centres, which are giant warehouses full of computers (imagine our raspberry pi but much more powerful stacked upon each other). To remotely access and control this device we are going to use a protocol called SSH (which stands for Secure SHell). 

Let's break down those two terms as they’re important. Protocol’s are simply a set of rules that computers follow to communicate with each other over a network. Just like the rules of a game make sure everyone knows what to do, protocols mean that computers can talk to one another without confusion. The protocol that we’ll be using in this instance is SSH, this is like having a secret passageway between your computer and the device, it allows you to control a computer remotely.

---
# Guide
Firstly we need the IP address which tells us the "position" and "path" to reach the Raspberry Pi, similarly to how your house address tells others the position and path of how to reach your house.

**The process explained below can be used if you haven't used your Pi for a while and need to re-connect.**

1. Enter: `ping [Your Initials][Your birthdate].local` which in my case is `js17.local` or `ping hostname.local` (if you selected a different hostname), an IP address should appear, similar to: *192.168.1.232* press CONTROL key on your keyboard and the C key at the same time to stop the text appearing in the terminal.

2. Select the "extensions" symbol on the very left of your screen, and search `remote ssh`. Select the one with the largest number of downloads (usually top) and install it.

3. Select the small blue symbol in the bottom left corner of VS Code. This should prompt a pop-up up in the top middle of your screen in which you select 'Connect to Host'.

4. Select *add new host* and enter `ssh Username@IpAddress` (where Username was the username you chose when setting up Pi Imager and IpAddress is the number obtained in step one).

5. Press enter and then select the first config file in the list, next click connect in the bottom right pop-up.

6. A new smaller screen will pop-up, click *continue* and then enter the password that you chose in the previous video.

7. The bottom left of your screen should now read "SSH: IpAddress" which indicates you are connected to the Pi, well done! 🎉👏

Now if you once again open terminal at the top of your screen, you should notice a green name similar to `pi@raspberrypi:` or whatever you called your device.

Always make sure that the explorer window is open by clicking explorer on the left panel at the top and select Open Remote. Then select OK in the pop up that appears in the top middle section of VS code to open your home folder on your raspberry pi. Once again you'll have to select continue follwed by the password you set for your raspberry pi. Finally open a new terminal by selecting terminal at the top of your screen and selecting new terminal.

**Whenever you are using VS Code connected to your Pi you should have the home folder open on the left and the terminal open at the bottom as we've done here**

Follow the foundational linux commands to get a taster of BASH, don't worry too much if you don't understand these just yet, we're going to cover them in more depth later...


---
# Code
#### In Terminal
`sudo apt-get update` = Gets a list of files that need to be updated

`sudo apt-get upgrade` = Upgrades the files in the last that the raspberry pi fetched in the previous step

---
# Troubleshooting
If encounter any issues please [contact us](https://jambyte.io/contact). We will add the fixes to this section, or into the video.
