# Overview 
In the previous tutorial we learned how to log in and control our raspberry pi remotely 🎮. Now we are going to learn how to execute commands on the device. As previously mentioned the most common way to control a computer is by using a graphical user interface, i.e. the icons and visual interface you are presented with when you are on your laptop 💻 home screen. 

However we have no GUI in this case and so we will be using a command line interface to issue commands to the device, for things such as creating files or opening folders. These commands can be used to control almost every function of a computer and it’s how computers used to run many years ago. The language that these commands are written in is called Bourne Again Shell (BASH) and it is incredibly powerful 🔋. 

MacOS’ terminal is built upon BASH and so many commands that we’ll learn in this tutorial you can use to control your laptop if you are using a Mac. This is why as a programmer 🧑‍💻 I prefer to use MacOS, as it more closely resembles the operating systems (Linux) used in industry, such as in Cloud 🌥️ Computing where the majority of machines run Linux.

---
# Guide
BASH commands can be used to open folders, create new folders or files, run programs and much more.
You can run these commands individually, one at a time in the terminal.

However, you can also create *bash scripts* which are a collection of these commands. For example if you wanted to open a folder and get a list of every file inside that folder you could run the commands manually one-by-one, or you could place the commands in a *bash script* and run it on a loop. This is the start of **DevOps**, and the process of automating manual tasks. Companies pay millions of pounds every year for these skills.



---
# Code

`mkdir my-first-folder` = Creates a folder called *my-first-folder*

`cd my-first-folder` = Enters the folder called *my-first-folder* (like double clicking it in the GUI)

`touch helloworld.py` = Creates a python file called *helloworld.py*

`cd ..` = Exits back out of the current folder

`date` = Get current date

`pwd` = Show current folder location (which folder you are in and which folders encapsulate that folder)

`ls` = List all files in the current folder you are in

`echo` = Output text to the terminal (Like print in Python)

####bash-script.sh:
```
#!/bin/bash
echo "Today is " `date`

echo -e "\nenter the path to directory"
read the_path

echo -e "\n your path has the following files and folders: "
ls $the_path
```

**Remember to save the file before you attempt to run it**

To run the file you just created first give yourself permission to do so:
`chmod u+x bash-script.sh`

Then run the script with:
`bash bash-script.sh`

---
# Troubleshooting
If encounter any issues please [contact us](https://jambyte.io/contact). We will add the fixes to this section, or into the video.