# Summary 
“Everyone in this country should learn how to program because it teaches you how to think” - Steve Jobs. Programming is arguably the most valuable skill in today's society, gone are the days of Computer Science being called “the future”. Computer Science is very much the present and this trend will only continue to increase. 

Computing technology has completely revolutionised almost every field, whether it be Biology (CRISPR), Politics (Social Media), Transport (AI) or even Music (Beatles latest song), it is increasingly rare to witness a breakthrough in a field that isn’t based upon technological advancement. The fundamental concepts that we will cover in the next couple of tutorials will teach you how computers operate. Experts in our field have an incredibly strong grasp of these fundamentals and whilst they can be easy to understand they take time to master, which is best achieved through hands-on practice. 

I strongly encourage you to practise the concepts taught in this tutorial as much as possible, asking questions in Google and to ChatGPT when anything is unclear or you would like to advance your skills. The three fundamental topics this tutorial will cover are Variables, Conditions and Loops. This tutorial is not a complete guide, it will simply prepare you to complete Pi-Guard and hopefully will give you a good understanding of how computers operate.

---
# Guide
Firstly, whilst connected to your raspberry pi over SSH, select extensions in Visual Studio Code and search Python click install in SSH. This will install the VS Code Extension for Python on the Raspberry Pi allowing us to run Python programs with a simple play button in the top right of the code editor.

Create a folder called `coding-basics` and inside that folder create a python file called `coding-basics.py`

Type `code coding-basics.py` to edit this file in your code editor (or you can click it in file explorer on the left)

#### Variables
Variables are simply data storage. We classify them into the types specified below to be more memory efficient.
You can assign a word to a data type. For instance specifiying `age = 18` means that whenever you refer to the variable `age` the computer will read it as the number 18. Essentially the same concept as algebra in maths.

Data types can be:
* `"Bob"` = String
* `42` = Int (number)
* `174.5` = Float (Decimal number)
* `True` = Boolean (True or False)
* `["Apple","Rice","Kiwi","Potato","Bacon"]` = Lists (Ordered collection of any of the previously stated data types).

**Interpolation** is a great example of why variables are useful. Interpolation allows us to dynamically change the value of something in a sentence. A great example of this is the top right of jambyte.io where it says "Hello, {user}". Try using interpolation by entering the following:

`print(f"Bob is {age}")

In Python we place the letter 'f' before a string inside a print statement so that it can accept variables as it did with `age` above.

**Concatination** is another very useful feature of variables and strings. We can essentially combine two strings (in variable form) into one by place a `+` between them. Try using concatination by entering the following:

`fullName = name +lastName`
`print(fullName)`

#### IF Statements (Conditional Logic)
You can read these as simply, "If a statement is true then do this, else do this". **Indentation** is a key concept here, the code that you want to execute within a block of the IF statement MUST be correctly indented as shown in the examples below.

**Generalised example:**
```
if (statement):
    do A
else:
    do B
```

**Notice how `do A` is indented (by four spaces) under the initial statement and `do B` is indented (by 4 spaces) under the else block**
This makes code much easier for humans to read but it is also necessary for Python to know what to execute if your IF statement triggers!

**Specific example:**
```
age = 10
if (age > 5):
    print("Age is greater than 10")
else:
    print("Age is 5 or lower")
```

#### Loops
If you wanted to print the same statement out multiple times it would be inefficient to write the same statement out multiple times.
A more efficient approach would be to place it in a loop.

**Inefficient example (without loop):**
```
print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
```

**Efficient example (with loop):**
```
for number in range(5):
    print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
```

Both of these examples will result in the same output. Can you see how the second is more efficient?

There are two types of loops, for loops as shown above, which iterate through a fixed number of times. While loops iterate until a condition is met, for example:

**While loop:**
```
age = 10
while (age < 20)
    print(f"My age is {age}")
    age = age + 1
```
Can you guess what the above loop will do? Try it out in your VS Code!

---
# Code
####coding-basics.py:
**Variables**
```
name = "Bob"
age = 42
height = 174.5
Studying = True
Shopping_list = ["Apple","Rice","Kiwi","Potato","Bacon"]
```

**Loops**
```
for number in range(5):
    print("My name is Jack and I am 24")

age = 10
while (age < 20)
    print(f"My age is {age}")
    age = age + 1
```

---
# Troubleshooting
If encounter any issues please [contact us](https://jambyte.io/contact). We will add the fixes to this section, or into the video.