# Introduction 
Fundamental programming concepts are exceptionally valuable. 

The best programmers have an exceptionally solid grasp of the fundamentals. Now we'll cover Variables, IF Statements, Loops, Functions and we'll touch on Object-Orientated Programming. Watch this video a couple of times to get the most out of it, try to replicate and alter the examples.

> "Everyone in this country should learn how to program because it teaches you how to think" - Steve Jobs (Co-Founder of Apple)

---
# Guide
Variables, IF Statements, Loops and Functions are the core concepts in programming, they apply to practically every language. There is fierce debate in the programming world as to whether Object-Orientated Programming is the best paradigm and generally it depends on the type of problem. 

#### Variables
These are simply data storage. We classify them into the types specified below to be more memory efficient.
You can assign a word to a data type. For instance specifiying `age = 18` means that whenever you refer to the variable `age` the computer will read it as the number 18. Essentially the same concept as algebra in maths.

Data types can be:
* `"Bob"` = String
* `42` = Int (number)
* `174.5` = Float (Decimal number)
* `True` = Boolean (True or False)
* `["Apple","Rice","Kiwi","Potato","Bacon"]` = Lists (Ordered collection of any of the previously stated data types).

#### IF Statements (Conditional Logic)
You can read these as simply, "If a statement is true then do this, else do this".

**Generalised example:**
```
if (statement):
    do this
else:
    do this
```

**Specific example:**
```
age = 10
if (age > 5):
    print("Age is greater than 10")
else:
    print("Age is 5 or lower")
```

#### Loops
If you wanted to print the same statement out multiple times it would be inefficient to write the same statement out multiple times.
A more efficient approach would be to place it in a loop.

**Inefficient example (without loop):**
```
print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
```

**Efficient example (with loop):**
```
for number in range(5):
    print("My name is Jack and I am 24")
```

Both of these examples will result in the same output. Can you see how the second is more efficient?

There are two types of loops, for loops as shown above, which iterate through a fixed number of times. While loops iterate until a condition is met, for example:

**While loop:**
```
age = 10
while (age < 20)
    print(f"My age is {age}")
    age = age + 1
```
Can you guess what the above loop will do? Try it out in your VS Code!

#### Functions
Functions are amazing, they allow you to wrap logic in a wrapper that you can execute on demand! Think of a function like a receipe in cooking. It needs a name to identify it, it might need inputs like ingredients, then there is a method, in which the inputs (ingredients) are taken and processed to make something new!

**Function example:**
```
# Name of function and "parameters" (inputs in brackets)
def bake_cake(flour, eggs, sugar):

    # Mix all the ingredients 
    cake = flour + eggs + sugar  
  
    # Output the value of the calculation above  
    return cake  

# Call the function
my_cake = bake_cake(1,2,3)

print(my_cake)
```
Can you guess what the above code (function) will do? Copy the code and try it out in your VS Code!

#### Object-Orientated Programming
Object-Orientated Programming (often referred to as OOP) is a different approach to programming, that is not always better. 

It bundles the concepts above (variables, loops, functions) into a package that is known as a "class" or blueprint. 

It is not essential to have an in-depth understanding of this concept for Pi-Spy, and many problems that you encounter can be solved without this concept.

**Object-Oriented Programming example:**
```
# Define the Class (Generic Blueprint)
class Dog:

    # Specify some attributes in the form of variables
    def init(self, name, age):
    self.name = name
    self.age = age


    # Specify an action in the form of a function  
    def bark(self):  
        return f"{self.name} says woof!"  

# Create an object of the Dog class
my_dog = Dog("Fido", 2)

# Call the bark method
print(my_dog.bark())  # Outputs: Fido says woof!
```

Hopefully you can notice above that the Dog "class" or blueprint, is comprised of variables (name & age) and a function that returns a bark message.

---
# Code
**Variables**
```
name = "Bob"
age = 42
height = 174.5
Studying = True
Shopping_list = ["Apple","Rice","Kiwi","Potato","Bacon"]
```

**Loops**
```
for number in range(5):
    print("My name is Jack and I am 24")

age = 10
while (age < 20)
    print(f"My age is {age}")
    age = age + 1
```

**Functions**
```
# Name of function and "parameters" (inputs in brackets)
def bake_cake(flour, eggs, sugar):

    # Mix all the ingredients 
    cake = flour + eggs + sugar  
  
    # Output the value of the calculation above  
    return cake  

# Call the function
my_cake = bake_cake(1,2,3)

print(my_cake)
```

**Object-Orientated Programming**
```
# Define the Class (Generic Blueprint)
class Dog:

    # Specify some attributes in the form of variables
    def init(self, name, age):
    self.name = name
    self.age = age


    # Specify an action in the form of a function  
    def bark(self):  
        return f"{self.name} says woof!"  

# Create an object of the Dog class
my_dog = Dog("Fido", 2)

# Call the bark method
print(my_dog.bark())  # Outputs: Fido says woof!
```

---
# Troubleshooting
If encounter any issues please [contact us](https://jambyte.io/contact). We will add the fixes to this section, or into the video.