# Overview
Now we’ve covered the fundamental coding concepts, we are ready to move on to building 👷 the device. We're going to achieve this by adding functionality in a modular process. This means we will focus on each individual piece of the home security device, starting with recording audio 🔊, followed by detecting motion and finally capturing video 🎥.

Once completed we will combine these pieces of functionality. This is how engineers approach problem solving in the real-world, we break problems down into their components solving smaller problems that once pieced together form the complete product ✅.

Recording audio with python and the raspberry pi is incredibly simple, let’s get started!

---
# Guide
Simply plug the USB microphone adapter into the USB microphone. Once connected to the adapter plug the adapter into the Raspberry Pi Zero. **Ensure to connect it to the left of the two micro-usb ports** (when looking into them). That's the hardware setup! 🙌

Next to test the functionality enter:
`arecord -D plughw:1,0 --duration=10 test.wave` into the Terminal. This should record for 10 seconds before creating and saving to a file named *test.wav*

Now that we've completed the setup and recorded some audio through the terminal using BASH, let's create a Python program that does the same.

#### Python Guide
1. To set this up in Python we first need to create a folder to store our Python files in, Enter:
`mkdir Pi-Guard` into the Terminal to create this folder. Create a file in this folder called record-audio.py
2. Then enter the code in the section below into the record-audio file
3. Press the play button to run the Python program

---
# Code
####recordAudio.py
```
import subprocess
from datetime import datetime

def record_audio(duration, audio_file_path):
   subprocess.run(["arecord", "-D", "plughw:1,0]", "-d", str(duration), "-f", "cd", audio_file_path)

duration = 10

timestamp = datetime.now().strftime("%d-%m-%H:%M")
audio_file_path = f"home/[yourUsername]/audio_{timestamp}.wav"

print("Starting audio recording...")

record_audio(duration, audio_file_path)

print(f"Audio recorded at: {audio_file_path}")
```

---
# Troubleshooting
If you encounter any issues please [contact us](https://jambyte.io/contact). We will add the fixes to this section, or into the video.