# Overview 
At this point, presuming everything has gone to plan, you should have a fully operational micro-computer that you can boot up and connect to over your network 🛜. You should be able to login to the device via SSH and issue commands 🧙 through BASH. You should also be able to write and execute Python programs, and have the ability to record audio 🔊 through the microphone. 

To make this device truly autonomous we should be able to automatically detect when a thief has entered the room, to do this we are going to use a Passive Infra-red Motion 🏃💨 sensor. These are ubiquitous in home security systems across the globe. They are also present in schools or offices where rooms need lights 💡 that turn on automatically when they detect motion. 

These sensors cannot identify where an object is only that its presence is near. The area in which something can be detected is called the detection zone. In this tutorial we’ll set up both the sensor and buzzer to give off an alert 🚨 when motion has been detected, just as our home security device will do!

---
# Guide
The PIR sensor has two physical dials. When looking at the sensor with the dome on the top the left dial controls the time the signal is output, e.g. once an object is detected should the sensor output a signal for 5 or 10 seconds? The right dial is the distance the sensor can sense up to.

To setup the PIR sensor for Pi-Guard (when looking at the sensor with the dome on the top):
1. Turn the left dial anti-clockwise just under 90 degrees
2. Turn the right dial clock-wise just under 90 degrees, when you are complete these should be almost symmetrical, feel free to experiment with these dials for this tutorial, but place them in this position when you are done
3. Copy the diagram in the video to connect the respective pins on the PIR sensor to the Pi Zero's GPIO pins using the cables provided. (*You can remove the white dome on the PIR sensor to determine which pin is for 5V, Ground or GPIO if needed*)

To setup the Buzzer do the following:
1. Remove the sticker from the front of the buzzer so it can emit sound
2. The buzzer has two pins, the longer one is for power (Anode) and the shorter one is the ground (Cathode)
3. Make sure to attach the longer pin using a cable to a Red GPIO pin on the raspberry pi
4. Finally attach the ground (shorter pin) to a green GPIO pin on the raspberry pi as shown in the video

To write the Python program that turns on the buzzer when it detects motion:
1. Ensure you are connected to the Pi using the SSH by clicking the connection symbol in the bottom left and entering the password to your Pi
2. Create a new Python file called `detect-motion.py` inside your Pi-Guard folder either through the Terminal or using the *Create file* icon near the top of the explorer window on the left of VS code.
3. Enter the code from the section below into the Python file
4. **Ensure that the sensor (white dome) is facing away from you before running the program**
5. Once you run the program, wait 30 seconds for the sensor to calibrate and wave your hand 👋 in-front of the sensor

---
# Code
####captureMotion.py
```
from gpiozero import Buzzer, MotionSensor
from time import sleep

# Set up the motion sensor and buzzer
pir = MotionSensor(4)
buzzer = Buzzer(16)

# Let the sensor settle
sleep(3)

pir.wait_for_motion()
print("Motion Detected!!!")

buzzer.on()
sleep(2)
buzzer.off()
```

---
# Troubleshooting
If you encounter any issues please [contact us](https://jambyte.io/contact). We will add the fixes to this section, or into the video.